Update API Strategy: API applications and API types (#3774)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/integrations/spryker-glue-api/getting-started-with-apis/api-strategy.md

---
title: Spryker API Strategy
description: What to build on, what changes, and how to choose the right Spryker API.
last_updated: Jun 25, 2026
template: default
layout: custom_new
---

## What this means for you

> - **On Glue today?** Nothing breaks. Glue is fully supported, there is no End-of-Life, and you don't have to migrate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **On Glue today?** Nothing breaks. Glue is fully supported, there is no End-of-Life, and you don't have to migrate existing features.
```

Author: Applied — added "existing features".

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

> - **Building something new?** Build on **API Platform integration**. It is generally available and is where all new Spryker features ship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Building something new?** Build it on **API Platform integration**. It is generally available and is where all new Spryker features ship.
```

Author: Applied — changed to "Build it on".

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

> - **Need a Spryker core feature released after Q1 2026?** It will be available through API Platform integration, not Glue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Need a Spryker Core feature released after Q1 2026?** It will be available through API Platform integration only.
```

Author: Applied — capitalized "Core" and changed the ending to "API Platform integration only".

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

Everything below is supporting detail.

> {% info_block warningBox "The one-line version" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% info_block warningBox  %}
```

Author: Applied — removed the "The one-line version" title from the info_block.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

> Glue keeps working and isn't going away. New work goes on API Platform integration. Migration is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Glue keeps working and isn't going away. New features are built on API Platform integration. Migration is optional.
```

Author: Applied — reworded to "New features are built on API Platform integration".

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

3. **Foundation** — *how* it's built underneath: **Glue** or **API Platform integration**. This is a foundation beneath the API, not something you call directly.

| API type | Application (where) | Foundation (how it's built) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Storefront API | Storefront API | Glue **or** API Platform integration |
| Back Office API | Backend API | Glue **or** API Platform integration |
| Merchant API | Backend API | API Platform integration |
| Merchant Data Exchange API | Backend API | API Platform integration |
| Data Exchange API | Backend API | API Platform integration |
| Async Event API | Backend API | API Platform integration |

Read the table across, not down: each API type belongs to one application and is built on one foundation, and those two facts are independent of each other. "Storefront API" names both an application and the type it hosts; "API Platform integration" is a foundation, not an endpoint you target. During the transition, an existing type can be served by either foundation.

{% info_block infoBox "Naming watch-out" %}

> The **Backend API** *application* is not the same as the **Back Office API** *type*. The Backend API application hosts several types, of which Back Office is one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Backend API** *application* is not the same as the **Back Office API** *type*. The Backend API application hosts several types of API, one of which is Back Office API.
```

Author: Applied — reworded the naming note exactly as suggested.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

{% endinfo_block %}

---

## What you can build on today

These are callable now:

| API type | Application | Caller (actor) | Use it when |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Storefront API** | Storefront | Customer (authenticated or guest) | You're building any customer-facing shopping experience |
| **Back Office API** | Backend | Back Office administrator or trusted internal service | You're automating or replacing Back Office administration |

> Everything in the next section is on the roadmap and not yet callable — don't design against it yet.

Reviewer: I would consider moving everything below to a new page, linking it here. 
The page itself is already a lot to process, and with the roadmap - even more confusing.

Author: Done — moved everything from "What's on the roadmap" onward to a new page, [Spryker API roadmap and adoption](/docs/integrations/spryker-glue-api/getting-started-with-apis/api-roadmap-and-adoption.html), linked from this section and added to the sidebar. This page now keeps only the orientation and what's callable today.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_
